# Table of contents

- [Speaking](#speaking)
  - [Decoration](#decoration)
  - [Museum](#museum)
  - [Tree](#tree)

Speaking
--------

### Decoration
1. **What is your home's decoration?**
- The decorations in my home mainly include photos and ornaments. The photos are mostly scenery and artistic pictures or photos of a great figures like Napoleon. And, the ornaments are almost from my friends, and my family friends as gifts to us. So most of them are meaningful and invaluable

2. **What kind of decoration do you want to have?**
- I want to have decoration made of wood as a decoration of my room since I think most of them are pretty and there is always a story behind them

3. **Do chinese people like redecorating their home?**
- Not really, since it is something that costs a lot of money, time and energy. Chinese people do like to purchase something small that can give their room a little bit fresh mood, but I don't believe we like to change into a brand-new house style in each short period

4. **What's your favourite color when you decorate your home?**
- Although my favorite color is black, but I'm afraid it would be too overwhelming for decorating my room. So perhaps light blue or white will be a good choice since they make the environment peaceful

### Museum
1. **Do you like visiting museums?Why?**
- Yes, notably history museums. I consider museums to be places in which time travel in achievable without time machines. When I am in the museums, I feel like I am in ancient times, which was an extraordinary feeling.

2. **How often do you visit museums?**
- Twice or three times in a month. It is the appropriate frequency since neither would I get tired of museums or miss them too much.

3. **Are there any museums in your hometown?**
- Of course, most of the museums in our hometown are historic ones that are for free for students and the elder, motivating me more to visit them.

4. **Do you think there should be more museums in your hometown?**
- Certainly, museums function as marvelous places for children to learn about our culture and gain knowledge as well. Although they are not that lucrative as cinemas or shopping malls, it is indispensable for a city's profound development.

### Tree
1. **What kind of trees do people usually plant in you country?How about your hometown?**
- The gingko tree is what Chinese people most plant. It is also the oldest tree in the world. And people in my hometown are typical kind of Chinese so gingko trees take up the greatest proportion of all the trees we plant.

2. **Have you ever planted trees?**
- Yes, I have planted trees. In my childhood, I remembered clearly, I planted a gingko tree. But it didn't grow well because I always forgot to water it

3. **What kinds of trees do you plant?**
- Well, actually, I'm a green hand in this respect, so I don't plant many trees. The only tree I planted was the gingko tree in my childhood

4. **Do you like planting trees?Why?**
- I'm not really into planting trees because it is too physically demanding and boring. Instead, I'd prefer some mental activities like contemplating and analyzing, which helps me develop a more clear and active mind

### Bargain
1. **Where can you bargain? Why?**
- In small stores, the commodities without a clear price tag might support, which means that their price in not fixed, so we have a chance to discuss with the shopkeepers. But in chain brand supermarkets like Walmart stores where commodities are all with clear price tags, generally there is no room for bargaining

2. **How do you bargain?**
- Generally, I'll tell the shopkeepers that next time I can bring my friends to buy more goods and become a regular visitor or show that what a poor student I am to get some sympathy

3. **Do Chinese people bargain**
- Yes, Chinese people do bargain sometimes, but as a matter of fact bargaining or not have nothing to do with the nationality because not only Chinese people will bargain. From my perspective, most people in the world will try to bargain when they think there is room for bargaining, since everyone wants to buy the right goods at the most affordable price.

4. **What do you think of bargain?**
- From my point of view, bargaining does not necessarily mean that someone likes to take advantage of others. Quite the contrary, bargaining shows that the consumer has a clear understanding of the product and rational thinking traits. Bargaining is the normal reaction of people when facing behavior that should be fiercely criticized

### Taking a rest
1.
