Writing
-------

### Many children find it difficult to concentrate on or pay attention to their studies at school. What are the causes? What are the possible solutions to this problem?

***It is true that*** school pupils nowadays are faced with the
difficulty of paying attention to their study. ***This essay will
outline why this has happened and put forward appropriate solutions to
address this severe problem***

***In my opinion, three main factors are to blame for the problem of***
concentration in the classroom to students. ***Firstly***, the
development of modern technology is responsible for children not paying
attention to study. ***For example***, children are easily tempted by
modern video games, and addicted to virtual reality. ***Secondly***,
school curriculum design does not always lay emphasis on students’
learning effectiveness, especially in some oriental countries. Children
in these countries tend to have many classes in a day with only limited
breaks between each class. ***Finally***, students are expected to
finish homework, as a way of reflection for their study, after school.
They often spend hours on completing the after-school tasks for each
subject, and this may lead to the situation where student losing focus
persists when coming to school the next day.

***The problem for*** students’ difficulty in concentration ***can
certainly be mitigated***. ***I believe the change must start with***
parents, who need to be persuaded that it is important to supervise
their children. Controlling children’s screen time strictly, ***for
example***, can help to prevent them from being distracted by video
games. ***Next***, school is responsible to employ scientific and
effective schedule setting, which contributes to improving students’
learning effectiveness. ***At the same time***, school should play an
important role in improving the communication between two groups,
teachers and parents, to meet the need of balancing students’ study and
their leisure time.

***In conclusion***, ***we may continue to face*** the classroom
concentration ***problem unless*** parents, teachers, and schools work
together to manage children more effectively.

### Some people think playing computer games is bad for children on everything. Others think it has some positive effects on the way children develop. Discuss both these views and give your own opinion

***With the rapid development of society***, computer games have become
an integral part of people's life, but people hold opposite views on it.
***Some people argue that*** computer games have unfavorable influences
on all aspects of children, ***but others believe that*** playing
computer games actually bring.

Although the word "everything" is quite extreme, It is hardly
far-fetched to imagine just how deeply the situation would negatively
impact our next generation, ***not only*** in terms of their physical
conditions, ***but*** of the mentality and personality formation.Healthy
problems may be initially be witnessed as in the process of playing
children would need to be sedentary, which leads to the lack of outdoor
exercises, which is extremely unfavorable to the physical conditions of
children. The reality seems even harsher if we consider the following-up
consequences brought to these youngsters ’ personalities. A reckless
indulgence in electronic games may easily distort their attitude of
facing problems or persons in the real life, ***by which I mean as it
is*** relatively easy to achieve success in the virtual world, children
who are addicted to the game world will gradually refuse to have
face-to-face communication with their relatives and friends in the real
world. ***As time goes by***, they will be completely isolated.

***Nevertheless***，with the advances of science and technology
industry, ***the positive impacts of*** computer games ***should not be
underestimated***. ***On the one hand***, virtual world can provide children with
multiple and wonderful learning or training modes, where many scenes can
never be realized in real life. ***For example***, after a failure or even
"death" in the game world, players can read the progress and try
repetitively,which can encourage children,who have relatively weaker
tolerance to adversity, to have the courage to enjoy the fun of
continuous exploration. ***On the other hand***, according to the
characteristics of primary students, many teaching software or apps for
younger people adopt game mode to attract children's attention,
designing interesting and diversified process to maintain children's
learning enthusiasm and progress, so that learning is no longer
monotonous and boring.

***In conclusion，it seems to me that*** computer games should be treated
rationally. For children who lack self-control, we really need parents
and teachers to strictly control the content and duration of the game,
so as to reduce the negative impacts of computer games and maximize
their positive influences.

### The leaders or directors of organizations are often older people. But some people say that young people can also be a leader. To what extent do you agree or disagree?

It is common for enterprises to have seniors as top executives nowadays.
***However, there is an argument that*** young people should also be offered
the opportunities to be the leaders as the age should not be the glass
ceiling that bars them from upper management in large corporations. ***From
my perspective, I agree with*** this idea.

***First of all***, young leaders，especially those employed in
high-technology companies, are easy to keep pace with the rapid changing
market. ***Admittedly***, compared with senior employees, they do lack
experience of the past, ***but*** facing this rapid shifting market, their
inadequate experience can be in turn seen as an advantage, as being in
the same age of the targeting customers,they can understand the current
popular tendency and are less likely to be inhibited by self -
consciousness. ***Therefore***, they are able to absorb the latest information
and use their lateral thinking to make adaptations to meet the demand.
***Besides***, young people have more abundant time and vigorous to be leader.
Being managers means catering enormous tasks simultaneously, and as most
of young people have not been married and formed their family, they can
devote themselves to their work and maximise their output, which is
impossible for older people.

***Undeniably***, when facing an emergency or a dilemma，compared with the
aged leaders, the young generation tend to be less responsible and
considerable, resulting in impulsive decisions due to their immaturity.
***Consequently***, organisations might be at risk.However, young candidates
who have the potential to be the manager can be first recruited as the
management trainee, and after having the professional training ranging
from six months to five years,they are sure to have the capability to
deal with diverse situations.

***In conclusion***, despite the defects of young managers, young people are
eligible for leadership. ***Therefore***, organisations should be encouraged
to employ the young generation in top positions.
